content/modules/ROOT/pages/module-01.adoc, before:

= 1. Edge Manager Introduction

== Welcome to Edge MegaStore, Inc. (Fictional Company)

Congratulations on your new job at Edge MegaStore, Inc. (EMI)! The pay isn't great
but if you love to learn about new edge management technology you are in the
right place. EMI is proud to provide our Customers with the
finest Edge Equipment available including a snack bar area with refreshments
(the Red-Sprinkled Donuts are a specialty).

image::EdgeMegastore-storefront.png[link=self, width=75%, window=blank]

It looks like our EMI Marketing Department has some work to do with improving AI 
generated images ('Dionuts' and Flying Strawberries?!) but thankfully you don't
have to worry about that.  

Let's dive into your new role.

[#currentstorefootprint]
=== Current Retail Store Footprint

We have four existing EMI stores spread between the East and West Coasts of the United States.

image::RetailExpansion.png[link=self, window=blank]

In each location we have a back of store edge device running a RHEL 9 bootc image (which also includes the mandatory Edge Manager Agent). These store devices run a 
Point-of-Sale (POS) application which is accessible via the front of store point of sale kiosks.

image::StoreComposition.png[link=self, window=blank]

[#lablogin]
=== Lab Login

In a moment, we are going to need your help bringing a new store online in your 
home town but first let's get you logged into your new work environment for an 
initial look around.

Click link:{console_url}[here,window=_blank] to access your Lab Environment (this link will open in a new browser tab)

[.no-copy-label]
.Username
[source,sh,role=execute,subs=attributes+]
----
{user}
----

[.no-copy-label]
.Password
[source,sh,role=execute,subs=attributes+]
----
{password}
----

You can set your UI Theme as desired (System Default, Light, Dark)

. Click *username* in upper-right hand corner
. Select *User Preferences*
. Set *Theme* to your desired choice 

image::m1-ui-theme-1.png[link=self, window=blank]

NOTE: For future reference, all Lab Login information is available via the left-hand nav item, "Lab Access"

[#edgemanageroverview]
=== Exploring Edge Manager

You are now logged into an OpenShift Container Platform environment which also has an Advanced Cluster Management operator installed.  
If you have never used these capabilities before, don't worry.  We are here to examine the Edge Manager portions only.  Edge Manager is running 
on OpenShift as a set of containerized microservices (one of which displays the UI elements that we are going to explore now)

. Expand top menu and set to *All Cluster*
. Expand the *Home* menu
. Select *Overview*
. Click *Edge*

image::m1-edgeoverview.png[link=self, window=blank]

Note that we see top level monitoring information.  We also observe the current quantity of devices under
management as well as their status. This helps us understand things like, "How many devices are being managed?", 
"Are these devices actually online (or are they in some sort of degraded state)?" 

Let's continue our exploration by examining an Edge Manager *Fleet*, next.

. Expand *Edge Management*
. Select *Fleets*
. Click *point-of-sale-prod*

NOTE: Your Fleet list may differ from the screenshot below. You can utilize the *Search by name* filter to find *point-of-sale-prod* if needed

image::m1-fleet-1.png[link=self, window=blank]

A *Fleet* is defined as a, "Group of Devices that share the same desired state configuraton ('device template') and common management policies"

We are observing the same top level monitoring information we saw previously only now it is specific to this particular Fleet, "*point-of-sale-prod*"

Let's examine the devices that are currently a member of this fleet

. Under *Up-to-date/devices*, click *4* 

NOTE: The Device count number might be different in your lab - simply click the right-most number

image::m1-fleet-2.png[link=self, window=blank]

Here we observe the 4 _existing_ EMI East/West coast store devices that we discussed earlier.  They are reporting a green '*Online*' device status.  
Let's examine the Fleet configuration in more detail.

. Click *point-of-sale-prod*

NOTE: If there are *Devices pending approval* you may need to scroll down to see the *Devices* list

image::m1-point-of-sale-prod.png[link=self, window=blank]

Let's explore how this Fleet was built in more detail

. Expand the *Actions* menu
. Click *Edit Fleet*

image::m1-editfleet.png[link=self, window=blank]

. We see the friendly name that has been chosen for this fleet: *point-of-sale-prod*
. A *device selector* label has been configured: '*pos=prod*' This is a user generated key-pair value of their choosing. _Any device that matches (contains) this label 
will automatically be made a member of this fleet_. Although we haven't done so in our lab, it is possible to have more than one label configured as a device selector (e.g. "pos=prod" and "loc=store")
. Note that we have *4 devices matching* this label (these are our existing store edge devices, your lab device count may vary)
. Click *Next*

image::m1-editfleet-2.png[link=self, window=blank]

We are now looking at what we refer to as the fleet *device template*.  The device template contains the configuration items that we want to specify declaratively
(with Edge Manager responsible for enforcing these specifications, including healing a given device back to desired state, if any of these items drift).

. Here we see the bootc image that *must be running on a device* in this fleet, ending in '...*pos-prod:1.0.0*'
. Click *+ Add configuration*

image::m1-editfleet-3.png[link=self, window=blank]

As part of the device template, We can specify additional host configuration items (like custom systemd service config, network config, etc.)

. Expand *Select a source type* (Edge manager can load pre-staged (inline) configuration files on the device, configuration files stored in Git or configuration files
stored on an internal web (http) repository)
. Since we don't want to add a new configuration at the moment, click the '*-*' symbol to remove this configuration section

image::m1-editfleet-4.png[link=self, window=blank]

Let's examine another element of the device template

. Click *+ Add Application*

As shown, we can also tie in one or more containerized applications which must be running on devices in the fleet.

image::m1-editfleet-5.png[link=self, window=blank]

Continuing our exploration, let's move on to one final item

. Since we don't want to add any Application workloads at the moment, click the '*-*' symbol to remove *Application 1*
. Click *Next*

image::m1-editfleet-6.png[link=self, window=blank]

When applying updates to Devices, we have the ability to specify *Advanced configuration* options

. Uncheck the box next to *Use basic configurations*
. Click the *(?)* tooltip to learn about setting *rollout policies*
. Click the *(?)* tooltip to learn about utilizing a *disruption budget*
. Click *Cancel* to exit out of the Fleet edit

image::m1-editfleet-7.png[link=self, window=blank]

[#module1summary]
== Module 1 Summary
*Thank you* for completing our Module 1 Lesson.  

In this Lesson, you learned how Edge Manager surfaces top level edge device monitoring information.  In addition, you learned how Edge Manager
Fleet specifications can be set for all devices that are members of a given fleet.  This functionality allows users to declaratively specify their desired state for Edge Devices and subsequently rely
on Edge Manager to enforce these specifications in order to help eliminate configuration drift.

=== Up Next

In the next Module we will review the Edge Manager Architecture at a high level and then ask you to onboard your own (new store) edge device.

Commit message:

typos
highlighting

yellow warning icon

add tooltip icon

add warning-icon

content/modules/ROOT/pages/module-01.adoc, after:

= 1. Edge Manager Introduction
include::./icons.adoc[]

== Welcome to Edge MegaStore, Inc. (Fictional Company)

Congratulations on your new job at Edge MegaStore, Inc. (EMI)! The pay isn't great
but if you love to learn about new edge management technology you are in the
right place. EMI is proud to provide our Customers with the
finest Edge Equipment available including a snack bar area with refreshments
(the Red-Sprinkled Donuts are a specialty).

image::EdgeMegastore-storefront.png[link=self, width=75%, window=blank]

It looks like our EMI Marketing Department has some work to do with improving AI
generated images ('Dionuts' and Flying Strawberries?!) but thankfully you don't
have to worry about that.

Let's dive into your new role.

[#currentstorefootprint]
=== Current Retail Store Footprint

We have four existing EMI stores spread between the East and West Coasts of the United States.

image::RetailExpansion.png[link=self, window=blank]

In each location we have a back of store edge device running a RHEL 9 bootc image (which also includes the mandatory Edge Manager Agent). These store devices run a
Point-of-Sale (POS) application which is accessible via the front of store point of sale kiosks.

image::StoreComposition.png[link=self, window=blank]

[#lablogin]
=== Lab Login

In a moment, we are going to need your help bringing a new store online in your
home town but first let's get you logged into your new work environment for an
initial look around.

Click link:{console_url}[here,window=_blank] to access your Lab Environment (this link will open in a new browser tab)

[.no-copy-label]
.Username
[source,sh,role=execute,subs=attributes+]
----
{user}
----

[.no-copy-label]
.Password
[source,sh,role=execute,subs=attributes+]
----
{password}
----

You can set your UI Theme as desired (System Default, Light, Dark)

. Click *username* in upper-right hand corner
. Select *User Preferences*
. Set *Theme* to your desired choice

image::m1-ui-theme-1.png[link=self, window=blank]

NOTE: For future reference, all Lab Login information is available via the left-hand nav item, "Lab Access"

[#edgemanageroverview]
=== Exploring Edge Manager

You are now logged into an OpenShift Container Platform environment which also has an Advanced Cluster Management operator installed.
If you have never used these capabilities before, don't worry.  We are here to examine the Edge Manager portions only.  Edge Manager is running
on OpenShift as a set of containerized microservices (one of which displays the UI elements that we are going to explore now)

. Expand top menu and set to *All Cluster*
. Expand the *Home* menu
. Select *Overview*
. Click *Edge*

image::m1-edgeoverview.png[link=self, window=blank]

Note that we see top level monitoring information.  We also observe the current quantity of devices under
management as well as their status. This helps us understand things like, "How many devices are being managed?",
"Are these devices actually online (or are they in some sort of degraded state)?"

Let's continue our exploration by examining an Edge Manager *Fleet*, next.

. Expand *Edge Management*
. Select *Fleets*
. Click *point-of-sale-prod*

NOTE: Your Fleet list may differ from the screenshot below. You can utilize the *Search by name* filter to find *point-of-sale-prod* if needed

image::m1-fleet-1.png[link=self, window=blank]

A *Fleet* is defined as a, "Group of Devices that share the same desired state configuraton ('device template') and common management policies"

We are observing the same top level monitoring information we saw previously only now it is specific to this particular Fleet, "*point-of-sale-prod*"

Let's examine the devices that are currently a member of this fleet

. Under *Up-to-date/devices*, click *4*

NOTE: The Device count number might be different in your lab - simply click the right-most number

image::m1-fleet-2.png[link=self, window=blank]

Here we observe the 4 _existing_ EMI East/West coast store devices that we discussed earlier.  They are reporting a green '*Online*' device status.
Let's examine the Fleet configuration in more detail.

. Click *point-of-sale-prod*

NOTE: If there are *Devices pending approval* you may need to scroll down to see the *Devices* list

image::m1-point-of-sale-prod.png[link=self, window=blank]

Let's explore how this Fleet was built in more detail

. Expand the *Actions* menu
. Click *Edit Fleet*

image::m1-editfleet.png[link=self, window=blank]

. We see the friendly name that has been chosen for this fleet: *point-of-sale-prod*
. A *device selector* label has been configured: '*pos=prod*' This is a user generated key-pair value of their choosing. _Any device that matches (contains) this label
will automatically be made a member of this fleet_. Although we haven't done so in our lab, it is possible to have more than one label configured as a device selector (e.g. "pos=prod" and "loc=store")
. Note that we have *4 devices matching* this label (these are our existing store edge devices, your lab device count may vary)
. Click *Next*

image::m1-editfleet-2.png[link=self, window=blank]

We are now looking at what we refer to as the fleet *device template*.  The device template contains the configuration items that we want to specify declaratively
(with Edge Manager responsible for enforcing these specifications, including healing a given device back to desired state, if any of these items drift).

. Here we see the bootc image that *must be running on a device* in this fleet, ending in '...*pos-prod:1.0.0*'
. Click *+ Add configuration*

image::m1-editfleet-3.png[link=self, window=blank]

As part of the device template, we can specify additional host configuration items (like custom systemd service config, network config, etc.)

. Expand *Select a source type* (Edge manager can load pre-staged (inline) configuration files on the device, configuration files stored in Git or configuration files
stored on an internal web (http) repository)
. Since we don't want to add a new configuration at the moment, click the '*-*' symbol to remove this configuration section

image::m1-editfleet-4.png[link=self, window=blank]

Let's examine another element of the device template

. Click *+ Add Application*

As shown, we can also tie in one or more containerized applications which must be running on devices in the fleet.

image::m1-editfleet-5.png[link=self, window=blank]

Continuing our exploration, let's move on to one final item

. Since we don't want to add any Application workloads at the moment, click the '*-*' symbol to remove *Application 1*
. Click *Next*

image::m1-editfleet-6.png[link=self, window=blank]

When applying updates to Devices, we have the ability to specify *Advanced configuration* options

. Uncheck the box next to *Use basic configurations*
. Click the :tooltip-icon: tooltip to learn about setting *rollout policies*
. Click the :tooltip-icon: tooltip to learn about utilizing a *disruption budget*
. Click *Cancel* to exit out of the Fleet edit

image::m1-editfleet-7.png[link=self, window=blank]

[#module1summary]
== Module 1 Summary
*Thank you* for completing our Module 1 Lesson.

In this Lesson, you learned how Edge Manager surfaces top level edge device monitoring information.  In addition, you learned how Edge Manager
Fleet specifications can be set for all devices that are members of a given fleet.  This functionality allows users to declaratively specify their desired state for Edge Devices and subsequently rely
on Edge Manager to enforce these specifications in order to help eliminate configuration drift.

=== Up Next

In the next Module we will review the Edge Manager Architecture at a high level and then ask you to onboard your own (new store) edge device.
