content/modules/ROOT/pages/module-02.adoc, before:

= 2. Edge Manager Operations

[#highlevelarchitecture]
== Edge Manager Architecture
Edge Manager consists of the highlighted components as shown in the following high-level architecture diagram:

image::m2-architecture.png[link=self, window=blank, width=100%]

. *Edge Manager Service* which consists of an API Server, worker processes (not shown), and a PostgreSQL database
utilized for storing inventory and runtime information such as current device target configuration and the reported actual configuration
. *User access* is achieved via two primary interfaces: Edge Manager Web UI (which we briefly examined earlier) and Edge Manager CLI (which
we will explore in a later module)
. *Edge Device access* utilizes an Agent that is running on each managed device. The agent always 'calls home' to the Edge Manager service, 
so the device can be on a private network or have a dynamic IP address (this includes devices that are behind Network Address Translation (NAT), firewalls and cellular / WLAN uplinks) 
. *Git repository integration* (optional) enables storing of device and device fleet configuration. When utilized, the Edge Manager service 
periodically polls Git for updates
. *External systems* can be utilized by the Edge Manager service to authenticate and authorize users, get mTLS certificates signed, or query
configuration for managed devices

[#onboarding]
== New Store Edge Device Onboarding
Now that you have seen an overview of Edge Manager and examined its architecture, it's time to bring our new store online 

NOTE: In the following screenshots, the user ID is set to ‘user1’. Your user ID will most likely be different from this. Please refer to the lab guide text for your correct user ID

=== Device Enrollment
Return to your lab environment and perform the following steps

. Expand and select *local-cluster*
. Expand *Virtualization* menu
. Select *VirtualMachines*
. Set *Project: wksp-{user}*
. Click *wksp-{user}-edge-device*

image::m2-virtualization.png[link=self, window=blank, width=100%]

Your Edge Device virtual machine has been pre-configured with a RHEL 9.5 bootc image containing an Edge Manager agent, let's power on the device

. Click the VM *start (play)* icon
. Click *Open web console* (to open the console in a new Browser tab)

image::m2-startvm.png[link=self, window=blank, width=100%]

Your edge device has powered on and established a secure mTLS connection with the Edge Manager API Service. As part of the enrollment process,
a QR code is conveniently made available to users   

=== Option 1: QR Enrollment via Mobile Phone
NOTE: If you have a Mobile Device, continue with the steps indicated below.  If you do not have
a Mobile Device, skip this section by clicking https://showroom-showroom-{guid}-{user}.apps.cluster-{guid}.dynamic.redhatworkshops.io/content/modules/module-02.html#option-2-anchor[here] to go to the *Option 2: QR Code Enrollment via Web Browser* section (you can also select this section in the *Contents*
right-hand navigation menu)

. Scan the QR code and open the site in your mobile device browser. 

IMPORTANT: Please make sure you utilize the username provided for you as shown in the following steps 

. Enter *Username*: {user}
. Enter *Password*: {password}
. Select *Login*

image::m2-mobile-1.png[link=self, window=blank, width=50%]

. Expand *Actions*
. Select *Approve*

image::m2-mobile-2.png[link=self, window=blank, width=50%]

IMPORTANT: For the device name (alias) please make sure that you replace 'YourHomeTown' with *your own home town* and append the alias with your user number: ({user})

. Enter your *device name (alias)*: [YourHomeTown]-store-{user}
. Select *Approve*

image::m2-mobile-3.png[link=self, window=blank, width=50%]

. (Scroll down if needed) and observe that the device is now in an *Approved* state

image::m2-mobile-4.png[link=self, window=blank, width=50%]

NOTE: Since you just enrolled via a Mobile Device, you do not need to follow the instructions in the next section, "Option 2: QR Code Enrollment via Web Browser".  Click https://showroom-showroom-{guid}-{user}.apps.cluster-{guid}.dynamic.redhatworkshops.io/content/modules/module-02.html#device-details-anchor[here] to skip this section and continue your lab

[[option-2-anchor]]
pass:[<br>]
pass:[<br>]
pass:[<br>]
pass:[<br>]

=== Option 2: QR Code Enrollment via Web Browser

Capture the QR Code image to your lab device clipboard 

. Press the *PRT SC* (Print Screen) key on your Lab Device Keyboard 

NOTE: Your QR Code will differ from the following example screenshot

image::m2-qr-web-1.png[link=self, window=blank, width=100%]

Next we will utilize a web based QR code reader

. (In your Lab Manual) expand the upper-right hand *Links* menu
. Select *QR Code Scanner*

image::m2-qr-web-2.png[link=self, window=blank, width=100%]

. Click *Paste Image*
. Click *Open Link*

image::m2-qr-web-3.png[link=self, window=blank, width=100%]

. Expand *Actions*
. Select *Approve*

image::m2-qr-web-4.png[link=self, window=blank, width=100%]

IMPORTANT: For the device name (alias) please make sure that you replace 'YourHomeTown' with *your own home town* and append the alias with your user number: ({user})

. Enter your *device name (alias)*: [YourHomeTown]-store-{user}
. Select *Approve*

image::m2-qr-web-5.png[link=self, window=blank, width=100%]

[[device-details-anchor]]
pass:[<br>]
pass:[<br>]
pass:[<br>]
pass:[<br>]

=== Device Details
Now that the device approval is complete, let's jump back into the Edge Manager Lab UI and further examine your new store device.

. Expand and select *All Clusters*
. Expand *Edge Management*
. Select *Devices*
. Change the *Devices* section search filter from *Labels and fleets* to *Name and alias* (You may need to scroll down to the *Devices* section if there is a list of *Devices pending approval* present at the top of this window)
. Enter the *hometown name you chose* for your device [underline]#in the search box# to filter the device list (please note that this search filter is *case sensitive*)
. Click *YourHomeTown-store-{user}* device

image::m2-userdevice-1.png[link=self, window=blank, width=100%]

In the Device details tab we observe a few important details

. *System image (running)*: the device is running a bootc OS image that ends in *'...base:1.0.0'* (as its name implies, this is a 'base' image containing no custom applications)
. *Device status: Online* - the device is in an *Online* status (by default, the Edge Manager agent reports in to the Edge Manager service every 60 seconds which populates information like this)
. *Fleet name: None* - when we enrolled the device, we purposely did not join it to a Fleet (we will do so in a moment)
. Click *Terminal*

image::m2-userdevice-2.png[link=self, window=blank, width=100%]

NOTE: It can take a few moments for your Terminal session to establish (thank you for your patience)

Let's check a few items on our Edge Device via the Terminal

NOTE: You can copy the contents of these commands to your clipboard (if desired) by clicking the clipboard icon

. Examine the Red Hat Enterprise Linux version that is running on this device
+
[source,sh,role=execute]
----
cat /etc/redhat-release
----
+
.Sample Output
[source,texinfo,subs="attributes"]
----
Red Hat Enterprise Linux release 9.5 (Plow)
----
. Observe the current booted 'base' image (with no rollback image present) by issuing this command:
+
[source,sh,role=execute]
----
bootc status
----
+
.Sample Output
[source,texinfo,subs="attributes"]
----
No staged image present
Current booted image: image-registry.openshift-image-registry.svc:5000/student-services/rhel9-bootc-edgemanager-base:1.0.0
    Image version: 9.20250326.0 (2025-04-10 20:57:38.715070587 UTC)
    Image digest: sha256:e37967518e6f9679f761524ca74b02298b81baa6f82b40112e2c20b1aab2f1f8
No rollback image present
----
. Validate that there are currently no application Containers running:
+
[source,sh,role=execute]
----
podman ps -a
----
+
.Sample Output
[source,texinfo,subs="attributes"]
----
CONTAINER ID  IMAGE       COMMAND     CREATED     STATUS      PORTS       NAMES
----

In order for this 'back of store' device to function properly, it needs to have a point-of-sale containerized application present.  Our front
of store point-of-sale Kiosk's access this application via an OpenShift route.  Let's examine this route next.

. Expand and select *local-cluster*
. Expand *Networking*
. Select *Routes*
. Click the 'pos' route *Location hyperlink* to open this route-to-app in a new browser tab

image::m2-routes-1.png[link=self, window=blank, width=100%]

. Note that we receive an, *"Application is not available"* error message (this is expected at this time because we are running a 'base' device image which does not contain
any containerized applications).  

image::m2-appnotavailable-1.png[link=self, window=blank, width=100%]

[#fleetmanagement]
== Fleet Management

In this section we are going to join our new store device to the existing fleet that you examined earlier, "*point-of-sale-prod*".  During this process, you will experience
how Edge Manager maintains desired state configuration for any devices that are a member of this fleet.

Keep the Application Browser Tab open and return to the *Routes* Browser Tab 

. Expand and select *All Clusters*
. Expand *Edge Management*
. Select *Devices*
. Change search filter from *Labels and fleets* to *Name and alias*
. Enter the *hometown name you chose* for your device to filter the device list
. Click *YourHomeTown-store-{user}*

image::m2-userdevice-1.png[link=self, window=blank, width=100%]

*Pop Quiz:* Do you remember the mechanism that we utilize to set fleet membership?

If you answered, "Fleet Device selector label", congratulations!  (This will be noted on your end of year, Edge Megastore, Inc., performance review)

The *'point-of-sale-prod'* fleet is configured with a *device selector* label set to: *pos=prod*.  Let's add that label to our new store device now.

. Click *Add label* and replace 'key=value' with *pos=prod* followed by pressing your *enter* key 
. Select the *(!)* icon at the end of the *'...base:1.0.0'* image

image::m2-userdevice-3.png[link=self, window=blank, width=100%]

Note that we have a *System image mismatch*.  Edge Manager is informing us that the desired state image for any device that is a member of this fleet
*must be* a bootc image ending in *'...pos-prod:1.0.0'*.  Since our new device is running a different (base) image, Edge Manager is automatically self-healing
the device to desired state.  

During this self-healing process, you will observe (via the *System status* pane):

. *'Update status'* change to '*Updating*', followed by
. *'Device status'* change to '*Rebooting*'

image::m2-userdevice-4.png[link=self, window=blank, width=100%]

NOTE: It takes a few minutes for the device to apply the new '...pos-prod:1.0.0' image and reboot. Now would be a good time to relax a little while you wait.  
Thank you for your patience!

. Wait for the device to report *'Online'* and *'Up-to-date'* in the *System status* panel
. Once item 1 is complete, observe how Edge Manager is now reporting the new '...*pos-prod:1.0.0*' System image in the *Configurations* panel
. Click *Terminal*

image::m2-userdevice-6.png[link=self, window=blank, width=100%]

Now that the image has been brought to the fleet desired state OS configuration, let's examine a few items within the Terminal

. Observe that the current booted image has been set to *'...pos-prod:1.0.0'* and our previous *'...base:1.0.0'* image is indicated as a rollback option 
+
[source,sh,role=execute]
----
bootc status
----
+
.Sample Output
[source,texinfo,subs="attributes"]
----
No staged image present
Current booted image: containers-storage:image-registry.openshift-image-registry.svc:5000/student-services/rhel9-bootc-edgemanager-pos-prod:1.0.0
    Image version: 9.20250326.0 (2025-04-10 21:00:03.968743927 UTC)
    Image digest: sha256:2c30b56e03862b92bbca2a50b3786642c8dd5af5309b8b2fa4f2de08d9a746ec
Current rollback image: image-registry.openshift-image-registry.svc:5000/student-services/rhel9-bootc-edgemanager-base:1.0.0
    Image version: 9.20250326.0 (2025-04-10 20:57:38.715070587 UTC)
    Image digest: sha256:e37967518e6f9679f761524ca74b02298b81baa6f82b40112e2c20b1aab2f1f8
----
. Check the containers that are now running on the device:
+
[source,sh,role=execute]
----
podman ps -a
----
+
.Sample Output
[source,texinfo,subs="attributes"]
----
CONTAINER ID  IMAGE                                    COMMAND               CREATED         STATUS         PORTS                                        NAMES
53347f7ca8f7  localhost/podman-pause:5.2.2-1737721907                        10 minutes ago  Up 10 minutes                                               47a0b459f7c9-service
8df58eb27786  localhost/podman-pause:5.2.2-1737721907                        10 minutes ago  Up 10 minutes  0.0.0.0:30000->8080/tcp                      a5aa9d20b8d3-infra
268f5b977564  quay.io/jswanson/pos-v1-prod:1.0.0       /usr/bin/run-http...  10 minutes ago  Up 10 minutes  0.0.0.0:30000->8080/tcp, 8080/tcp, 8443/tcp  point-of-sale-pos-prod
----

NOTE: The '*pos-v1-prod:1.0.0*' container listed is our point of sale application (which is accessed via the front of store pos kiosk's).

Return to your Application browser tab (if you inadvertently closed this tab, you can get back to this view by selecting *local-cluster* in the top menu, followed by
selecting *Networking\Routes* via the left-hand nav)

. Refresh your browser and note that the point of sale application is now available!

image::m2-pos-app.png[link=self, window=blank, width=100%]

[#module2summary]
== Module 2 Summary
*Thank you* for completing our Module 2 Lesson.  

In this Lesson, you learned how to onboard a new store edge device into Edge Manager. You started your device with a simple base image (containing no applications) and then witnessed
how Edge Manager automatically swapped this image to one containing the POS App (after joining a Fleet that has this desired state configuration). 

You may be wondering:  "Why not just 
join the Fleet as part of onboarding?" and the answer is that you certainly could have done that but then you may not have learned as much about how Edge Manager operates.  Additionally, you 
may have wondered, "Why not just bake the app(s) into the 'base' image?" and that is also certainly an option. 

NOTE: Edge Manager gives users the optionality to configure things as they see fit, in alignment with any of their current build standards.

Regardless of the approach taken, it should hopefully be more evident to you that Edge Manager can play a significant role in helping to maintain desired state configuration for devices.  

=== Up Next

You are well on your way to opening your new store for business; however, there is one small challenge. You may have noticed that our POS app is not the most useful (it doesn't actually _do anything_
other than present a static user interface with no user interoperability).  

In our final module, you will learn how to create a new fleet from scratch and specify a new point of sale *application* as part
of the fleet device template.  You will also explore the Edge Manager command line interface along with how to further monitor and decommission devices.

Commit message:

update qrcode browser scan procedure

content/modules/ROOT/pages/module-02.adoc, after:

= 2. Edge Manager Operations

[#highlevelarchitecture]
== Edge Manager Architecture
Edge Manager consists of the highlighted components as shown in the following high-level architecture diagram:

image::m2-architecture.png[link=self, window=blank, width=100%]

. *Edge Manager Service* which consists of an API Server, worker processes (not shown), and a PostgreSQL database
utilized for storing inventory and runtime information such as current device target configuration and the reported actual configuration
. *User access* is achieved via two primary interfaces: Edge Manager Web UI (which we briefly examined earlier) and Edge Manager CLI (which
we will explore in a later module)
. *Edge Device access* utilizes an Agent that is running on each managed device. The agent always 'calls home' to the Edge Manager service, 
so the device can be on a private network or have a dynamic IP address (this includes devices that are behind Network Address Translation (NAT), firewalls and cellular / WLAN uplinks) 
. *Git repository integration* (optional) enables storing of device and device fleet configuration. When utilized, the Edge Manager service 
periodically polls Git for updates
. *External systems* can be utilized by the Edge Manager service to authenticate and authorize users, get mTLS certificates signed, or query
configuration for managed devices

[#onboarding]
== New Store Edge Device Onboarding
Now that you have seen an overview of Edge Manager and examined its architecture, it's time to bring our new store online 

NOTE: In the following screenshots, the user ID is set to ‘user1’. Your user ID will most likely be different from this. Please refer to the lab guide text for your correct user ID

=== Device Enrollment
Return to your lab environment and perform the following steps

. Expand and select *local-cluster*
. Expand *Virtualization* menu
. Select *VirtualMachines*
. Set *Project: wksp-{user}*
. Click *wksp-{user}-edge-device*

image::m2-virtualization.png[link=self, window=blank, width=100%]

Your Edge Device virtual machine has been pre-configured with a RHEL 9.5 bootc image containing an Edge Manager agent, let's power on the device

. Click the VM *start (play)* icon
. Click *Open web console* (to open the console in a new Browser tab)

image::m2-startvm.png[link=self, window=blank, width=100%]

Your edge device has powered on and established a secure mTLS connection with the Edge Manager API Service. As part of the enrollment process,
a QR code is conveniently made available to users   

=== Option 1: QR Enrollment via Mobile Phone
NOTE: If you have a Mobile Device, continue with the steps indicated below.  If you do not have
a Mobile Device, skip this section by clicking https://showroom-showroom-{guid}-{user}.apps.cluster-{guid}.dynamic.redhatworkshops.io/content/modules/module-02.html#option-2-anchor[here] to go to the *Option 2: QR Code Enrollment via Web Browser* section (you can also select this section in the *Contents*
right-hand navigation menu)

. Scan the QR code and open the site in your mobile device browser. 

IMPORTANT: Please make sure you utilize the username provided for you as shown in the following steps 

. Enter *Username*: {user}
. Enter *Password*: {password}
. Select *Login*

image::m2-mobile-1.png[link=self, window=blank, width=50%]

. Expand *Actions*
. Select *Approve*

image::m2-mobile-2.png[link=self, window=blank, width=50%]

IMPORTANT: For the device name (alias) please make sure that you replace 'YourHomeTown' with *your own home town* and append the alias with your user number: ({user})

. Enter your *device name (alias)*: [YourHomeTown]-store-{user}
. Select *Approve*

image::m2-mobile-3.png[link=self, window=blank, width=50%]

. (Scroll down if needed) and observe that the device is now in an *Approved* state

image::m2-mobile-4.png[link=self, window=blank, width=50%]

NOTE: Since you just enrolled via a Mobile Device, you do not need to follow the instructions in the next section, "Option 2: QR Code Enrollment via Web Browser".  Click https://showroom-showroom-{guid}-{user}.apps.cluster-{guid}.dynamic.redhatworkshops.io/content/modules/module-02.html#device-details-anchor[here] to skip this section and continue your lab

[[option-2-anchor]]
pass:[<br>]
pass:[<br>]
pass:[<br>]
pass:[<br>]

=== Option 2: QR Code Enrollment via Web Browser

We are going to utilize the chrome browser *Search with Google Lens* feature to scan the device QR code

. Select the chrome browser menu in the upper-right hand corner
. Click *Search with Google Lens*

image::m2-lens1.png[link=self, window=blank, width=100%]

. Drag and select the *QR Code* image
. Click *Website*

image::m2-lens2.png[link=self, window=blank, width=100%]

. Expand *Actions*
. Select *Approve*

image::m2-qr-web-4.png[link=self, window=blank, width=100%]

IMPORTANT: For the device name (alias) please make sure that you replace 'YourHomeTown' with *your own home town* and append the alias with your user number: ({user})

. Enter your *device name (alias)*: [YourHomeTown]-store-{user}
. Select *Approve*

image::m2-qr-web-5.png[link=self, window=blank, width=100%]

[[device-details-anchor]]
pass:[<br>]
pass:[<br>]
pass:[<br>]
pass:[<br>]

=== Device Details
Now that the device approval is complete, let's jump back into the Edge Manager Lab UI and further examine your new store device.

. Expand and select *All Clusters*
. Expand *Edge Management*
. Select *Devices*
. Change the *Devices* section search filter from *Labels and fleets* to *Name and alias* (You may need to scroll down to the *Devices* section if there is a list of *Devices pending approval* present at the top of this window)
. Enter the *hometown name you chose* for your device [underline]#in the search box# to filter the device list (please note that this search filter is *case sensitive*)
. Click *YourHomeTown-store-{user}* device

image::m2-userdevice-1.png[link=self, window=blank, width=100%]

In the Device details tab we observe a few important details

. *System image (running)*: the device is running a bootc OS image that ends in *'...base:1.0.0'* (as its name implies, this is a 'base' image containing no custom applications)
. *Device status: Online* - the device is in an *Online* status (by default, the Edge Manager agent reports in to the Edge Manager service every 60 seconds which populates information like this)
. *Fleet name: None* - when we enrolled the device, we purposely did not join it to a Fleet (we will do so in a moment)
. Click *Terminal*

image::m2-userdevice-2.png[link=self, window=blank, width=100%]

NOTE: It can take a few moments for your Terminal session to establish (thank you for your patience)

Let's check a few items on our Edge Device via the Terminal

NOTE: You can copy the contents of these commands to your clipboard (if desired) by clicking the clipboard icon

. Examine the Red Hat Enterprise Linux version that is running on this device
+
[source,sh,role=execute]
----
cat /etc/redhat-release
----
+
.Sample Output
[source,texinfo,subs="attributes"]
----
Red Hat Enterprise Linux release 9.5 (Plow)
----
. Observe the current booted 'base' image (with no rollback image present) by issuing this command:
+
[source,sh,role=execute]
----
bootc status
----
+
.Sample Output
[source,texinfo,subs="attributes"]
----
No staged image present
Current booted image: image-registry.openshift-image-registry.svc:5000/student-services/rhel9-bootc-edgemanager-base:1.0.0
    Image version: 9.20250326.0 (2025-04-10 20:57:38.715070587 UTC)
    Image digest: sha256:e37967518e6f9679f761524ca74b02298b81baa6f82b40112e2c20b1aab2f1f8
No rollback image present
----
. Validate that there are currently no application Containers running:
+
[source,sh,role=execute]
----
podman ps -a
----
+
.Sample Output
[source,texinfo,subs="attributes"]
----
CONTAINER ID  IMAGE       COMMAND     CREATED     STATUS      PORTS       NAMES
----

In order for this 'back of store' device to function properly, it needs to have a point-of-sale containerized application present.  Our front
of store point-of-sale Kiosk's access this application via an OpenShift route.  Let's examine this route next.

. Expand and select *local-cluster*
. Expand *Networking*
. Select *Routes*
. Click the 'pos' route *Location hyperlink* to open this route-to-app in a new browser tab

image::m2-routes-1.png[link=self, window=blank, width=100%]

. Note that we receive an, *"Application is not available"* error message (this is expected at this time because we are running a 'base' device image which does not contain
any containerized applications).  

image::m2-appnotavailable-1.png[link=self, window=blank, width=100%]

[#fleetmanagement]
== Fleet Management

In this section we are going to join our new store device to the existing fleet that you examined earlier, "*point-of-sale-prod*".  During this process, you will experience
how Edge Manager maintains desired state configuration for any devices that are a member of this fleet.

Keep the Application Browser Tab open and return to the *Routes* Browser Tab 

. Expand and select *All Clusters*
. Expand *Edge Management*
. Select *Devices*
. Change search filter from *Labels and fleets* to *Name and alias*
. Enter the *hometown name you chose* for your device to filter the device list
. Click *YourHomeTown-store-{user}*

image::m2-userdevice-1.png[link=self, window=blank, width=100%]

*Pop Quiz:* Do you remember the mechanism that we utilize to set fleet membership?

If you answered, "Fleet Device selector label", congratulations!  (This will be noted on your end of year, Edge Megastore, Inc., performance review)

The *'point-of-sale-prod'* fleet is configured with a *device selector* label set to: *pos=prod*.  Let's add that label to our new store device now.

. Click *Add label* and replace 'key=value' with *pos=prod* followed by pressing your *enter* key 
. Select the *(!)* icon at the end of the *'...base:1.0.0'* image

image::m2-userdevice-3.png[link=self, window=blank, width=100%]

Note that we have a *System image mismatch*.  Edge Manager is informing us that the desired state image for any device that is a member of this fleet
*must be* a bootc image ending in *'...pos-prod:1.0.0'*.  Since our new device is running a different (base) image, Edge Manager is automatically self-healing
the device to desired state.  

During this self-healing process, you will observe (via the *System status* pane):

. *'Update status'* change to '*Updating*', followed by
. *'Device status'* change to '*Rebooting*'

image::m2-userdevice-4.png[link=self, window=blank, width=100%]

NOTE: It takes a few minutes for the device to apply the new '...pos-prod:1.0.0' image and reboot. Now would be a good time to relax a little while you wait.  
Thank you for your patience!

. Wait for the device to report *'Online'* and *'Up-to-date'* in the *System status* panel
. Once item 1 is complete, observe how Edge Manager is now reporting the new '...*pos-prod:1.0.0*' System image in the *Configurations* panel
. Click *Terminal*

image::m2-userdevice-6.png[link=self, window=blank, width=100%]

Now that the image has been brought to the fleet desired state OS configuration, let's examine a few items within the Terminal

. Observe that the current booted image has been set to *'...pos-prod:1.0.0'* and our previous *'...base:1.0.0'* image is indicated as a rollback option 
+
[source,sh,role=execute]
----
bootc status
----
+
.Sample Output
[source,texinfo,subs="attributes"]
----
No staged image present
Current booted image: containers-storage:image-registry.openshift-image-registry.svc:5000/student-services/rhel9-bootc-edgemanager-pos-prod:1.0.0
    Image version: 9.20250326.0 (2025-04-10 21:00:03.968743927 UTC)
    Image digest: sha256:2c30b56e03862b92bbca2a50b3786642c8dd5af5309b8b2fa4f2de08d9a746ec
Current rollback image: image-registry.openshift-image-registry.svc:5000/student-services/rhel9-bootc-edgemanager-base:1.0.0
    Image version: 9.20250326.0 (2025-04-10 20:57:38.715070587 UTC)
    Image digest: sha256:e37967518e6f9679f761524ca74b02298b81baa6f82b40112e2c20b1aab2f1f8
----
. Check the containers that are now running on the device:
+
[source,sh,role=execute]
----
podman ps -a
----
+
.Sample Output
[source,texinfo,subs="attributes"]
----
CONTAINER ID  IMAGE                                    COMMAND               CREATED         STATUS         PORTS                                        NAMES
53347f7ca8f7  localhost/podman-pause:5.2.2-1737721907                        10 minutes ago  Up 10 minutes                                               47a0b459f7c9-service
8df58eb27786  localhost/podman-pause:5.2.2-1737721907                        10 minutes ago  Up 10 minutes  0.0.0.0:30000->8080/tcp                      a5aa9d20b8d3-infra
268f5b977564  quay.io/jswanson/pos-v1-prod:1.0.0       /usr/bin/run-http...  10 minutes ago  Up 10 minutes  0.0.0.0:30000->8080/tcp, 8080/tcp, 8443/tcp  point-of-sale-pos-prod
----

NOTE: The '*pos-v1-prod:1.0.0*' container listed is our point of sale application (which is accessed via the front of store pos kiosk's).

Return to your Application browser tab (if you inadvertently closed this tab, you can get back to this view by selecting *local-cluster* in the top menu, followed by
selecting *Networking\Routes* via the left-hand nav)

. Refresh your browser and note that the point of sale application is now available!

image::m2-pos-app.png[link=self, window=blank, width=100%]

[#module2summary]
== Module 2 Summary
*Thank you* for completing our Module 2 Lesson.  

In this Lesson, you learned how to onboard a new store edge device into Edge Manager. You started your device with a simple base image (containing no applications) and then witnessed
how Edge Manager automatically swapped this image to one containing the POS App (after joining a Fleet that has this desired state configuration). 

You may be wondering:  "Why not just 
join the Fleet as part of onboarding?" and the answer is that you certainly could have done that but then you may not have learned as much about how Edge Manager operates.  Additionally, you 
may have wondered, "Why not just bake the app(s) into the 'base' image?" and that is also certainly an option. 

NOTE: Edge Manager gives users the optionality to configure things as they see fit, in alignment with any of their current build standards.

Regardless of the approach taken, it should hopefully be more evident to you that Edge Manager can play a significant role in helping to maintain desired state configuration for devices.  

=== Up Next

You are well on your way to opening your new store for business; however, there is one small challenge. You may have noticed that our POS app is not the most useful (it doesn't actually _do anything_
other than present a static user interface with no user interoperability).  

In our final module, you will learn how to create a new fleet from scratch and specify a new point of sale *application* as part
of the fleet device template.  You will also explore the Edge Manager command line interface along with how to further monitor and decommission devices.
